README.md, before:

# Elite Dangerous Cargo Monitor

![Elite Dangerous Cargo Monitor](https://img.shields.io/badge/Elite%20Dangerous-Cargo%20Monitor-orange?style=flat-square)
[![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/insert3coins/EliteCargoMonitor?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/insert3coins/EliteCargoMonitor/blob/main/LICENSE.txt)
[![Last Commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/insert3coins/EliteCargoMonitor?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/insert3coins/EliteCargoMonitor/commits/main)
[![Top Language](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/insert3coins/EliteCargoMonitor?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/insert3coins/EliteCargoMonitor)

A lightweight Windows utility for players of Elite Dangerous. It monitors your in-game cargo in real-time, displaying the contents and total count in a simple interface and exporting the data to a text file for use with streaming overlays or other tools.

---

## 📍 Overview

This tool provides a simple way to keep an eye on your ship's cargo without having to tab into the game's right-hand panel. It reads the `Cargo.json` file that Elite Dangerous generates, along with player journals to determine total capacity. The output is displayed in the app window and also written to a `cargo.txt` file, which is perfect for adding a cargo display to your stream via OBS or other broadcasting software.

<!-- Optional: Add a screenshot of the application here -->
<!-- !Elite Cargo Monitor Screenshot -->

## ✨ Features

-   **Real-time Monitoring**: Watches `Cargo.json` for any changes and updates instantly.
-   **Cargo Capacity**: Reads player journal files to display your total cargo capacity (e.g., `128/256`).
-   **Simple UI**: A clean, no-fuss window displays your current cargo list.
-   **Text File Output**: Exports cargo data to `out/cargo.txt` for easy integration with other tools (like OBS for streaming).
-   **Audio Cues**: Plays sounds when monitoring starts and stops.
-   **Automatic Path Detection**: Automatically finds the default Elite Dangerous player data folder.
-   **System Tray**: Minimizes to the system tray to run unobtrusively in the background.

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

-   Windows Operating System
-   .NET Desktop Runtime
-   Elite Dangerous installed.

### Installation

The easiest way to use the Cargo Monitor is to download the latest release.

1.  Go to the **Releases** page.
2.  Download the `.zip` file from the latest release.
3.  Extract the contents to a folder of your choice.
4.  Run `EliteCargoMonitor.exe`.

### Building from Source

If you want to build the project yourself:

1.  Clone the repository:
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/insert3coins/EliteCargoMonitor.git
    ```
2.  Navigate to the project directory:
    ```sh
    cd EliteCargoMonitor
    ```
3.  Restore the .NET dependencies:
    ```sh
    dotnet restore
    ```
4.  Run the application:
    ```sh
    dotnet run
    ```

## 🤖 Usage

1.  Launch Elite Dangerous.
2.  Run `EliteCargoMonitor.exe`.
3.  Click **Start** to begin monitoring.
4.  The application window will update whenever your cargo changes.
5.  A file named `cargo.txt` will be created and updated in an `out` sub-folder inside the application's directory. You can add this text file as a source in OBS.
6.  Click **Stop** to pause monitoring.
7.  Minimize or close the window to send the application to the system tray. You can restore it by double-clicking the tray icon.
8.  To fully close the application, use the **Exit** button or right-click the tray icon and select **Exit**.

## 📌 Project Roadmap

-   [ ] Create a settings UI for easier configuration (e.g., custom file paths).
-   [ ] Allow customization of the `cargo.txt` output format.
-   [x] Add a system tray icon for running in the background.
-   [ ] Package the application with an installer.

## 🔰 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Whether it's reporting a bug, suggesting a feature, or submitting a pull request, your help is appreciated.

1.  **Fork the Repository**: Start by forking the project repository to your GitHub account.
2.  **Create a New Branch**: Work on a new branch with a descriptive name.
    ```sh
    git checkout -b feature/new-thing
    ```
3.  **Make Your Changes**: Code away!
4.  **Commit Your Changes**: Use a clear and descriptive commit message.
    ```sh
    git commit -m 'feat: Implement new thing'
    ```
5.  **Push to GitHub**: Push your changes to your forked repository.
    ```sh
    git push origin feature/new-thing
    ```
6.  **Submit a Pull Request**: Open a PR against the `main` branch of the original repository.

## 🎗 License

This project is licensed under the **GNU General Public License v3.0**. See the LICENSE.txt file for more details.

## 🙌 Disclaimer

This tool was created using assets and imagery from Elite: Dangerous, with the permission of Frontier Developments plc for non-commercial purposes. It is not endorsed by nor reflects the views or opinions of Frontier Developments and no employee of Frontier Developments was involved in the making of it.

Commit message:

We now have a settings window, where you can change name of output file and also we got a custom format string for cargo output

README.md, after:

# Elite Dangerous Cargo Monitor

![Elite Dangerous Cargo Monitor](https://img.shields.io/badge/Elite%20Dangerous-Cargo%20Monitor-orange?style=flat-square)
[![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/insert3coins/EliteCargoMonitor?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/insert3coins/EliteCargoMonitor/blob/main/LICENSE.txt)
[![Last Commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/insert3coins/EliteCargoMonitor?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/insert3coins/EliteCargoMonitor/commits/main)
[![Top Language](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/insert3coins/EliteCargoMonitor?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/insert3coins/EliteCargoMonitor)

A lightweight Windows utility for players of Elite Dangerous. It monitors your in-game cargo in real-time, displaying the contents and total count in a simple interface and exporting the data to a text file for use with streaming overlays or other tools.

---

## 📍 Overview

This tool provides a simple way to keep an eye on your ship's cargo without having to tab into the game's right-hand panel. It reads the `Cargo.json` file that Elite Dangerous generates, along with player journals to determine total capacity. The output is displayed in the app window and also written to a `cargo.txt` file, which is perfect for adding a cargo display to your stream via OBS or other broadcasting software.

<!-- Optional: Add a screenshot of the application here -->
<!-- !Elite Cargo Monitor Screenshot -->

## ✨ Features

-   **Real-time Monitoring**: Watches `Cargo.json` for any changes and updates instantly.
-   **Cargo Capacity**: Reads player journal files to display your total cargo capacity (e.g., `128/256`).
-   **Simple UI**: A clean, no-fuss window displays your current cargo list.
-   **Text File Output**: Exports cargo data to `out/cargo.txt` for easy integration with other tools (like OBS for streaming).
-   **Audio Cues**: Plays sounds when monitoring starts and stops.
-   **Automatic Path Detection**: Automatically finds the default Elite Dangerous player data folder.
-   **System Tray**: Minimizes to the system tray to run unobtrusively in the background.

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

-   Windows Operating System
-   .NET Desktop Runtime
-   Elite Dangerous installed.

### Installation

The easiest way to use the Cargo Monitor is to download the latest release.

1.  Go to the **Releases** page.
2.  Download the `.zip` file from the latest release.
3.  Extract the contents to a folder of your choice.
4.  Run `EliteCargoMonitor.exe`.

### Building from Source

If you want to build the project yourself:

1.  Clone the repository:
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/insert3coins/EliteCargoMonitor.git
    ```
2.  Navigate to the project directory:
    ```sh
    cd EliteCargoMonitor
    ```
3.  Restore the .NET dependencies:
    ```sh
    dotnet restore
    ```
4.  Run the application:
    ```sh
    dotnet run
    ```

## 🤖 Usage

1.  Launch Elite Dangerous.
2.  Run `EliteCargoMonitor.exe`.
3.  Click **Start** to begin monitoring.
4.  The application window will update whenever your cargo changes.
5.  A file named `cargo.txt` will be created and updated in an `out` sub-folder inside the application's directory. You can add this text file as a source in OBS.
6.  Click **Stop** to pause monitoring.
7.  Minimize or close the window to send the application to the system tray. You can restore it by double-clicking the tray icon.
8.  To fully close the application, use the **Exit** button or right-click the tray icon and select **Exit**.

## ⚙️ Settings

You can customize the application's behavior by clicking the **Settings** button.

### Output File Format

You can change the format of the text written to the output file using a custom format string. The following placeholders are available:

-   `{count}`: Total number of items in cargo.
-   `{capacity}`: Total cargo capacity (blank if not yet known).
-   `{count_slash_capacity}`: A combined view, e.g., "128/256" or just "128".
-   `{items}`: A single-line list of all cargo items, e.g., `Gold (10) Silver (5)`.
-   `{items_multiline}`: A multi-line list of all cargo items.
-   `\n`: Inserts a newline character.

**Default format:** `{count_slash_capacity} | {items}`

### Output File Name

You can change the name of the output file (default is `cargo.txt`).

## 📌 Project Roadmap

-   [x] Create a settings UI for easier configuration.
-   [x] Allow customization of the `cargo.txt` output format.
-   [x] Add a system tray icon for running in the background.
-   [ ] Package the application with an installer.

## 🔰 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Whether it's reporting a bug, suggesting a feature, or submitting a pull request, your help is appreciated.

1.  **Fork the Repository**: Start by forking the project repository to your GitHub account.
2.  **Create a New Branch**: Work on a new branch with a descriptive name.
    ```sh
    git checkout -b feature/new-thing
    ```
3.  **Make Your Changes**: Code away!
4.  **Commit Your Changes**: Use a clear and descriptive commit message.
    ```sh
    git commit -m 'feat: Implement new thing'
    ```
5.  **Push to GitHub**: Push your changes to your forked repository.
    ```sh
    git push origin feature/new-thing
    ```
6.  **Submit a Pull Request**: Open a PR against the `main` branch of the original repository.

## 🎗 License

This project is licensed under the **GNU General Public License v3.0**. See the LICENSE.txt file for more details.

## 🙌 Disclaimer

This tool was created using assets and imagery from Elite: Dangerous, with the permission of Frontier Developments plc for non-commercial purposes. It is not endorsed by nor reflects the views or opinions of Frontier Developments and no employee of Frontier Developments was involved in the making of it.
